---
layout: post
title: NWAV47
date: 2018-10-18 08:00:00 -0400
redirect_from: "/nwav47"
tags: [Conferences, Presentations, Research, Side Projects]
excerpt: Today, I gave a poster presentation on prevelar raising. As it turns out, despite BEG and BAG being relatively small lexical classes, I found phonological, morphological, and lexical effects on the degree of raising, and that the two vowel classes reacted to these influences differences.
---

<div class="biglink"><a href="/downloads/181019-nwav47.pdf" title="LCUGA5 Presentation" class="nodot">Download the<br />poster here!</a></div>

Today, I gave a poster presentation on prevelar raising. As it turns out, despite <span style="sc">beg</span> and <span style="sc">bag</span> being relatively small lexical classes, I found phonological, morphological, and lexical effects on the degree of raising, and that the two vowel classes reacted to these influences differences.

So for some speakers, mostly in the Pacific Northwest, the Upper Midwest, and Canada, they raise the <span style="sc">dress</span> (<span style="sc">beg</span>) and <span style="sc">trap</span> (<span style="sc">bag</span>) vowels before voiced velars. The idea for this research mostly came about because I was trying to figure out whether I have <span style="sc">beg</span> raising. Turns out, I do, except for a few words like *integrity*, *neglibigle* and a few others. This is somewhat unusual, especially being from St. Louis. 

So I set up a categorization task that I distributed via Reddit. I showed people a bunch of <span style="sc">beg</span> and <span style="sc">bag</span> words and asked them whether the vowel in their pronunciation is most like that in *bake*, *deck*, or *back*. Almost 7,000 people took the survey and I got over 500,000 observations.

As it turns out, there were clear phonological effects for <span style="sc">beg</span>. If the /ɡ/ was followed by a sonorant (as in *regular* or *segment*), particular a liquid (*negligible* or *segregate*), it was indicated to be raised less. Adding suffixes had different effects: people indicated a raised vowel more when *-ed* was added to verbs, but only for <span style="sc">bag</span>. There were lexical effects too: for <span style="sc">bag</span>, more frequent words were raised more, borrowings with <span style="sc">beg</span> were raised more, and <span style="sc">beg</span> words with orthographic <ex> (*exile*, *exit*) were virtually never raised. 

The takeaway is that even though these are relatively marginal lexical classes, they still have interesting language-internal factors. And, even though <span style="sc">beg</span>- and <span style="sc">bag</span>-raising are generally considered to be the same phenomenan of prevelar raising, the two are different. There are some major limitations here, particularly because reported speech is never completely reliable, so I'd like to follow up with an acoustic study. But, I think it's important to include many more words in a word list because some of these patterns would not have been found if a just small one was used. 